# AI-Powered Big Five Personality Assessment

## Project Overview

This project aims to change the Big 5 Personality test to provide a more useful, and potentially more accurate measure of your Big 5 Personality traits. By having open ended responses to the questions found here. I will use GPT-4o to assess the user's response to the question and assert a score on 1-5, and generate an insight. To calculate percentiles of the users, I have population responses here, where over 800,000+ people have responded to the questions. A final report is generated by GPT-4o to summarize the user’s psychological profile in natural language. The prototype was implemented as a web application with Flask and OpenAI’s API, with the results stored in JSON files. Initial evaluations also suggest the model can produce some meaningful insights with distinct personality profiles. Although significant further testing is needed to validate the psychometric reliability. This project suggests the potential of LLM’s use in psychometric tests.

---

## Technologies Used

- Python 3.11
- Flask 
- Flask-Session (for server-side sessions)
- OpenAI API 
- HTML/CSS 
- JSON 

---

## Setup Instructions

### 1. Clone the Repo and Install Requirements

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ethanstapley/AI-Big-5-Assessment
cd project/
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
You will also need to set up an OpenAI API key in your environment with

Powershell:
```
$env:OPENAI_API_KEY = "sk-..."
```
Unix/macOS:
```
export OPENAI_API_KEY="sk-..."
```
Then you simply run the app with 
```
flask run
```
And open your browser to: http://127.0.0.1:5000

---

Link to the report for more details:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Lr-2g4rj2ktxI31l5Pbs-0jBNNh4qEv_Pe3NU3MWnoA/edit?usp=sharing

---

Portions of this project’s code was developed with the assistance of AI tools. All AI-generated content was reviewed, tested, and adapted by me to meet ensure correctness.
